now let's turn to another big story
today Israeli security forces have been
carrying out a major operation in the
north of the occupied West Bank thought
to be one of the biggest such operations
there in years the Palestinian red
Cresent says at least 11 people have
been killed six reportedly died in a
drone strike near Janine and five in an
air strike in the alaras refugee camp in
the Jordan Valley while Israeli Army
claims it has killed nine Palestinian
terrorists with reports of military
activity in toam Janine nablas and tias
it's believed to be the first time in 20
years that at least four West Bank
cities have been targeted simultaneously
Muhammad Taha from the BBC Arabic
service explained why the West Bank is
known as an occupied territory and how
the area is governed the West Bank is is
is described as occupied by the UN
Security Council decisions because these
areas were supposed to be uh Palestinian
areas the also the oso uh treaty between
the Palestinians and Israel are
dedicating this area to be uh self uh
self uh controlled by the Palestinian
Authority uh and across the years the
Israeli authorities approved many
establishing many settlements in the
West Bank the difference between the
West Bank and Gaza that the West Bank
has got Israeli citizens has got
settlers their numbers are are are
nearly half million people and the
situation is very fragile Gaza has all
primarily Palestinian people living
there but now with the with the Israeli
presence in Gaza is making things really
difficult and also also by separating
the northern Gaza from Southern Gaza by
narim uh Corridor is making things
really difficult for the people there
Muhammad Taha from BBC Arabic while our
Middle East correspondent yoland Nell
told us a little more about the
operation I mean what we've been hearing
from local journalists really is it's in
terms of the scope as well as the scale
of this um that it's being compared to
the days of the Palestinian second inada
or Uprising some two decades ago um I
mean it's hard to get a lot of
information cities like Janine the main
entrances have been uh closed off by
Israeli forces uh preventing journalists
from getting in uh but what we've been
hearing from there is that Israeli
forces are surrounding um at least two
of the hospitals um and we've also been
hearing reports of gun battles going on
in the urban refugee camp there that has
been the subject of so many Israeli
military raids in the past um that of
course involving Palestinian armed
groups and Israeli soldiers uh but also
ongoing action in other places in tolam
in nablas uh in the North of the dordan
valley where a Palestinian ambulance
crew says that say that after a drone
strike they've been struggling to reach
some of those wounded um because uh that
the Israeli forces are still present
there as well um I mean the Israeli
military has not said very much
officially about what is going on it's
talked about this being a
counterterrorism operation involving
different Security Forces we've had the
Israeli foreign minister Israel Katz
who's come out in particular to talking
about how the Israeli military is acting
with full force he said in the north of
the West Bank and he accuses Iran of
backing Palestinian armed groups to
really open up a new front he says um
against Israel um and says that this
action is necessary to deal with them
that they may have to adopt measures
such as those seen in the Gaza Strip uh
including temporary evacuations of
Palestinian residents I mean that is
something that will really alarm
Palestinians we've had a comment also
from the spokesperson um for the
Palestinian Authority president Mahmud
abas uh he has been saying that what's
happening is escalating uh the ongoing
war in Gaza and saying that it will lead
to dire and dangerous results for which
everybody will pay the
price y Land N there in Jerusalem we do
have a live page of what is happening in
the West Bank on our website around the
world and across the UK this is